And that brings us to Politics Monday.
And with that, here's Stu Rothenberg, senior
editor of Inside Elections, and Susan Page,
USA Today's Washington bureau chief.
Susan, let me start with you.
Let me start with something that Speaker Pelosi
told "The Washington Post" magazine last week,
that they posted it today.
She was asked whether she supported impeaching
President Trump.
She said: "Impeachment is so divisive to the
country that unless there's something so compelling
and overwhelming and bipartisan, I don't think
we should go down that path, because it divides
the country, and he's just not worth it."
SUSAN PAGE, Washington Bureau Chief, USA Today:
This is consistent with what she's been saying
in the past, although it's a little blunter.
It goes a step further.
It's consistent with what Adam Schiff and
Jerry Nadler, two of the key Democratic committee
chairmen, have been saying.
But it is going to make a lot of Democrats
unhappy who believe that the right thing is
to move ahead with impeachment proceedings
against the president.
Nancy Pelosi, I think, is speaking from the
perspective of someone who lived through the
Bill Clinton impeachment, where the House
was able to convict.
The Senate was -- the House was able to impeach.
The Senate wasn't able to convict.
And the party that bore the burden of a backlash
was the party that impeached -- tried to impeach
the president.
So I think that is the perspective.
But there's -- the Democrats are going to
be divided on this issue.
JOHN YANG: And members of her caucus are going
to be unhappy.
STUART ROTHENBERG, Inside Elections: Right.
Right.
I agree, John.
I think, basically, what she is saying is,
do Democrats want to feel good or do they
want to win?
Many of the younger Democrats, insurgents,
anti-establishment Democrats, just can't resist
themselves.
They really want to take on the president
immediately, and impeachment is the way, the
most immediate way.
They just don't have any patience.
I think the speaker has history on her side,
and I think she's right
SUSAN PAGE: But it's not -- it's only a matter
of being impatient.
If you believe the president had done something
impeachable, you may feel that, even if we're
not going to succeed, we have an obligation
to impeach him.
And you could also make the point that, with
Richard Nixon's impeachment, you didn't start
out with a lot of Republicans in favor of
that.
It was as evidence built over time through
the impeachment hearings that there was Republican
and bipartisan support.
STU ROTHENBERG: Yes, but, Susan, you know
the Republicans in the Senate are not going
to go along with the conviction.
So, impeachment would make Democrats feel
good, but I don't think it would accomplish
anything.
JOHN YANG: Susan, this morning, The Washington
Post had a look inside the Trump reelection
campaign.
And it sounds like a lot of what he was doing
in 2016, big rallies, a lot of data mining,
and demonizing the opposition.
We heard in that tape piece what the Democrats
are talking about, Medicare for all, free
college tuition.
Are they in a way helping -- by talking this
debate about are you a socialist, are you
a capitalist, are they playing into that in
any way?
SUSAN PAGE: The Democrats are going to have
to figure out what kind of coalition they
think will defeat Donald Trump.
And they are not in agreement on that.
There are some Democrats, like Stacey Abrams,
who came pretty close to winning a race she
wasn't supposed to win for governor of Georgia,
who thinks you do that by persuading and energizing
your core supporters, you get young people
and minorities excited about your candidacy
and your bold proposals and you get them to
the polls.
But there are other Democrats who say, the
way we made big inroads in the midterms last
November was by swinging districts that are
purple, where you have to appeal to some voters
who are independent-minded or even vote Republican
sometimes.
I think this is one of the things this long
primary season is going to sort out.
What kind of Democrat can make the best case
that they can defeat Donald Trump?
Because if you -- I'll tell you one thing
Democrats are not divided on, and that is
their fervent desire to deny Donald Trump
a second term.
STU ROTHENBERG: I think that's a choice Democrats
don't have to make.
I think they need swing voters and they need
to turn out core voters, younger voters, 18
to 29, significant constituency that's entering
the electorate now that is really strongly
Democratic.
Non-whites, they need to get more of those
voters, but they still need to hold onto suburban
voters, those swing voters and college -- college
-- white women with a college degree.
So I think they -- I don't think they have
to choose one path or the other.
They need to do both.
JOHN YANG: This is a time when the Democrats,
a lot of the Democratic candidates are introducing
themselves to the country.
One of them, Kirsten Gillibrand, has had a
little -- or has hit a little bit of a bump.
She's -- one of her big issues has been dealing
with sexual assault and sexual harassment
in the military.
And now it turns out, it's being reported
by Politico, that a young woman on her staff,
unhappy with how her complaints about sexual
harassment and intimidation were handled,
quit.
What do you make of this, Susan?
SUSAN PAGE: We have had other Democratic candidates
have problems along the same lines.
Bernie Sanders has as well about his handling
during his first presidential campaign about
complaints of sexual harassment.
But I think this hurts Kirsten Gillibrand
more.
And that's because it's been her signature
issue.
And for her to have responded inadequately
to complaints of sexual harassment by a staffer,
and moving to fire the staffer who was accused
only when it was about to become public, I
think, makes her look hypocritical.
So I think it's an issue she's going to have
to address in a really forthright way if she's
going to get over it.
STU ROTHENBERG: I agree completely, but I
would add this.
You only have one chance to make a first impression.
And we know the senator.
You know the senator.
But most voters don't know the senator.
And this could be a stumble that she could
recover from easily.
Elizabeth Warren, I think, has recovered from
her Native American stumble, at least partially.
Or else this could sink Gillibrand';s campaign.
We will see.
JOHN YANG: We have also seen some new polling
out of Iowa.
We're talking about the Democrats have to
decide what they want.
It's interesting that the top two candidates
are Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders, who are
-- and they're the second choice for each
first choice.
You can't think of some -- two candidates
who are more different in a lot of ways on
policy issues.
SUSAN PAGE: Yes, but I would just say we're
almost a year away from the Iowa caucuses.
And so I don't take the lineup, the horse
race questions on the Iowa poll so seriously.
What struck me about that was the policy questions
and how liberal that the Democratic coalition
is.
In Iowa, there was majority support for the
Green New Deal, which I bet most people couldn't
define, for Medicare for all, which is a really
far-reaching health care proposal.
That surprised me.
And that indicated that maybe Stacey Abrams'
view of things, where you want to take bold
positions, that's certainly what looks like
it's going to resonate in Iowa.
STU ROTHENBERG: Yes.
I would say Democrats know two candidates,
Sanders and Biden.
If you pick Sanders, then Biden is your backup
choice.
If you pick Biden, it's Sanders.
JOHN YANG: Stuart Rothenberg, Susan Page,
thanks so much.
SUSAN PAGE: Thank you.
STU ROTHENBERG: Thanks, John.